MongoDB folder and urls + Grafana alerts (#857)
CleverCloud/doc.clever-cloud.com: deploy/addon/mongodb/managing-MongoDB.md

---
title: "Managing your MongoDB"
date: 2023-06-20T15:01:20+02:00
position: 3

> shortdesc: Managing your MongoDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shortdesc: Managing your MongoDB database
```

tags:
- monitoring
- document
- nosql
- database
- managed service
---

> ## Can I use [Mongo Ops Manager](https://www.mongodb.com/products/ops-manager) on Clever Cloud?
> 
> To be able to use Mongo Ops Manager, you'll need a valid MongoDB Enterprise Advanced subscription and to deploy a [Linux version of their manager solution](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/ops-manager). If you don't have purchased any license from MongoDB and you are using the Community version, you might be looking for a similar service for your databases.

Reviewer: HTML `id`s are generated automatically, and having URLs inside the `<h2>`s can possibly cause long and unreadable `id`s. We can just move the link to the paragraph below.

```suggestion
## Can I use Mongo Ops Manager on Clever Cloud?

To be able to use [Mongo Ops Manager](https://www.mongodb.com/products/ops-manager), you'll need a valid MongoDB Enterprise Advanced subscription and to deploy a [Linux version of their manager solution](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/ops-manager). If you haven't purchased any license from MongoDB and you are using the Community version, you might be looking for a similar service for your databases.
```

## Does Clever Cloud provide a similar service?

> The features available with Mongo Ops Manager could be relevant if you managed your infrastructure and the maintenance of your MongoDB databases yourself. However, if you use Clever Cloud to access our Mongo add-ons, you are already opting for a managed service, and will therefore will benefit from the following features similar to Mongo Ops Manager:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The features available with Mongo Ops Manager could be relevant if you managed your infrastructure and the maintenance of your MongoDB databases yourself. However, if you use Clever Cloud to access our Mongo add-ons, you are already opting for a managed service, and will therefore benefit from the following features similar to Mongo Ops Manager:
```

- **A centralized interface** to access your database settings and perform operations on them.
- **A monitoring and alert system** that can be configured with Grafana (an example with Slack alerts can be found [here](https://www.clever-cloud.com/blog/features/2021/12/03/slack-alerts-for-grafana/)).
- **A backup and restore system** already configured for our add-ons (customizable upon request) with easy migration and one-click importation.
- The ability to **automate tasks** with our CLI.
- **Enhanced security** through our default access management on Clever Cloud (encryption at rest, default unauthorized super admin operations, etc.).

> Note that these features are available for all our databases addons, in addition to MongoDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that these features are available for all our databases add-ons, in addition to MongoDB.
```
